---
title: Good Advice
pubDate: 2025-03-16
blurb: The right answer to any person seeking advice
verses: []
tags: ["advice"]
---
Figuring out seminary is hard. Nowadays there's too many options. Currently I'm considering three seminaries. That is already challenging, juggling between each's teaching style and theology. However, I have to next consider online or in person, and after that I would have to consider part time or full time. As I try to discern God's will I am considering more and more to cast lots to alleviate the stress, and ask God to do His will. In this struggle I have let it be known to many brothers and sisters in the hopes of Holy Spirit speking through them or even for simple prayer. To be honest, I am mostly fishing for a surefire solution that would take all the decision making stress from me. In making it known however, I seem to be blessed with many well wishers. Peopl that, goodhearted in intention, tell me to just do it online, because its the easiest way. I can't help but be so amazed. Amazed at how little they think of the Christian faith.

God's will cannot be so quickly to be summed up by what is easy, convenient or even logical. We look through the scripture and we can't help but see all the peculiarties of a life devoted to serving for God. When we look at Moses who was struck by stage fright, or speech impediment depending on the interpretation, we would never dare tell him he could be the leader of a tribe numbering in the hundred thousands. How would he lead? Yet God said so. We look next to Saul, the youngest of a shepherd's family and David the shepherd. Both were god's anointed yet had no knowledge of how to lead a kingdom. They were not even royal lineage. Yet, they were great leaders that God delighted in. We can even look into the New Testament. Jesus, himself was from Galilee, a destitue region. Yet this man, our savior, was bold enough to proclaim the word, and His soveriengty as the Son of God. What a silly carpenter. He then goes on to pick fishermen, tax collectors, and even pharisees to be His emissaries to spread God's word. These are the lowest of the low. Simple fishermen and coniving tax collectors. Even worse, pharisees that used the word for their own gains, who should not be trusted to spread the word for the gain of the world. 

I illustrate these examples not to put my name amongst these heroes. I put my name here for if I am of God and follow God by faith and not by the world's standards, then let me look first to God. It may very well be that I am meant to do seminary online, but that is not the point. We are not here for the easy life. We are here for the straight and narrow life that leads to God. We are called to not lift the heavy yoke, but instead the light yoke. In the end it is still a yoke. So, I pray that as we give advice we do not point to cost benefit analysis as people polluted to the world looking for our best gain. Instead, may we trust that the highest yield choice is to choose God. Each and every time may we choose God, for we are surrounded by so many "good" options, but the Good option is to pick God. To look at His face whether the seas be stormy or not and walk towards Him. If anyone presses on for your opinion then tell them to ask God. if they press on further, then offer to pray with them. If they press on then point them to scripture. It is not our job to give an answer. It is our job to point to God. The best and most loving thing is to make sure in all our advice to illustrate the possible ways God can work. Thus, casting the net wide and letting them know the gravity and the depth of their decision. From there, with the doubts, we point to God in prayer and scripture. Every choice can be a trial, that brings us closer to God. It is up to make that choice to make each choice a trial that brings us closer to God. 

What a joy, to be able to point to God as we aid our fellow man. What a joy, to be able to recieve direction to the Almighty in our most unsure moments. Truly such a relationship is the foundation of the Church.